.jp2 -> JPEG-2000
.pgf -> Progressive Graphics File
JPEG-2000: A wavelet-based image compression format which was created to replace JPEG, but never succeeded, mostly due to patent issues. It is superior to JPEG in every aspect except for encoding/decoding speed, which is way slower then for JPEG.
JPEG-2K -> JPEG-2000
Progressive Graphics File: A wavelet-based image compression format similar to JPEG-2000, but trades better encoding/decoding speed for worse space efficiency. It still beats JPEG by far, though.
HEIC -> HEIF
HEIF: A powerful bitmap image format with an amazing feature set, surpassing all known alternatives among common bitmap image formats. It can do everything JPEG, GIF, PNG can do, supports animation, HDR and transparency. Is internally based on H.265 video codec compression techniques. Delivers the same quality of JPEG at half the size, avoiding most artifacts and using mostly blurriness to compensate for information loss. Big downside: Due to licensing and patent issues only Apple supports this format. And not even on all Apple platforms but just on IOs.
WebP: Promoted by Google. Uses compression techniques from the VP8 video codec. Can do animations, transparency and Google claims it to compress way better than JPEG. However, independent tests have shown this depends on the use case and is not generally true. However, WebP introduces blurriness instead of clearly discernable artifacts like in JPEG, and therefore looks better even though both versions are recognizably different from the original. So basically WebP is better then JPEG, but not by too much. The biggest current problem of WebP is missing support from Apple. Neither MacOS nor IOs nor any Apple Web-Browser supports the format at this time (2023).
WebP2: A planned improved version of WebP in order to compete with AVIF and HEIF, which are both superior to WebP. However, as of 2023, development of the format design has not finished yet.
AVIF: Based on compression from the AV1 video codec. Superior to WebP. Might be similar to HEIF, yet probably with a smaller feature set regarding the more exotic features of HEIF. Chrome and WebKit seem to support the Format. Firefox has planned to support it, but removed the support before actually releasing a new version of the browser. There is no indication that Firefox has added support since then. ImageMagick should support the format, but due to a bug only very recent versions actually (i.e. not those shipped by Debian in 2023-02) do support it.
